Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Kevin has seen a truly ridiculous number of Demo day pitches, and he has just cracked the code of short form getting people to care about what you're doing, and has seen so many founders go through this and sort of cracked, not just like the formatting itself, but how to communicate with the audience how to pull out your goals and like make that really resonate, and some elements of like the mental preparation to get up and do that. So, Kevin, I'll just pass it straight over. Do your thing.
Kevin Kaspar: Thanks everyone so excited to be here. I'm glad we have the hour together. We can use it, however, is best. I have a presentation that I'll kind of go through. But if things aren't hitting and you have questions like feel free to let me know. Please make it as much of a dialogue as possible.
Kevin Kaspar: This is one of my favorite things, so I'm really glad that I get to do it. And if you have like offline questions or comments, or like, want me to review, feel free to let me know I'm on voxer, so you can ping me there. I'm accessible in a variety of means. And I'll send my email and contact information after as well. So
Kevin Kaspar: definitely stay in touch. And hopefully, I can make it out to Demo Day as well. What day is it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: May 29, th Thursday.
Kevin Kaspar: May 29.th All right. See if I can get it in the calendar. Sweet, let me
Kevin Kaspar: get this going.
Kevin Kaspar: Can you see this.
Kevin Kaspar: Oh, it's outdated!
Kevin Kaspar: Yes, you can see.
Chloe Lannert: Good.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. There's a few things I want to go over with, all of you, right? Like, what's the overall objective? How are we gonna format demo day. What are some pitching principles that I've learned over the years like? And then, of course, the actual structure. How do you want to approach each of the different components from Demo Day. What's the closing? Ask? And then kind of like, if I were you, how I would handle this so happy to jump in and get started, but again, always like flag and let me know if you have any questions. As things come up.
Kevin Kaspar: so
Kevin Kaspar: I think there's a few goals that I want to get straight on early. The best thing that I can do for you is give you kind of like the mindset and the framework for how to actually make the most out of demo Day. Because if you have a clear vision of what you want that to be going in, I think you can definitely make the most of it.
Kevin Kaspar: and the best way to do that is to kind of increase the amount of confidence and comfort that you have going into the day of, because you only get one trial run right when you're up there to be able to do that. So just making sure that you feel good about your pitch, and that you have a lot of confidence in what you've actually created, and are excited to share it. I think this is the best thing to do, so I'll give you tactical tips. I'll give you kind of like what I've seen best practices and things like that. But I think
Kevin Kaspar: overall. The best thing that we can do is like, have you in the right mindset and make you feel comfortable and confident going into the day.
Kevin Kaspar: So kind of heading into demo day format. I think there are a few things that you want to keep in mind across the entire 6 min, right? So there are obviously segments within these. 6 min. But
Kevin Kaspar: I think the most important thing on the left hand side is like having one storyline that you can pull through from the very beginning to the end.
Kevin Kaspar: Oftentimes what I've seen is that the demo might be different from the pitch which might be different from the QA. And that creates like a little bit of like fragmentation between them and the best thing you can do is like, set yourself up for the demo when you're doing the pitch. Set yourself up for the QA. When you're doing the demo and that can be done by as easy as like. Let's see how this works right. And then you go into your demo. You just want to make sure that people, users and listeners are always tied to what you're doing next.
Kevin Kaspar: The second thing is, it's a reality that you'll be fighting for attention like I'd be lying to you. Everyone would be lying to you if they were saying they were engaged for all 2 h of demo day, or however long it is and I think, unfortunately, just like knowing this. You definitely want to make your presentation as engaging as possible. It doesn't have to be engaging for everyone. But
Kevin Kaspar: there are specific listeners that you want in the audience to pay attention to, and making sure that you attract their attention quickly is really important. And that kind of goes to this next point, right? You can't attract everyone in the room. That's totally okay. I think this is something that techstars founders also have a sometimes of a challenging time with. They do want to please everyone.
Kevin Kaspar: But I think it's okay to design a pitch around like, Okay, who are the 3, 4, 5 people in this room that I really want attention from? And how am I going to make sure that I get it. The caveat to that is, of course, like you never really know who someone else knows, just because, like.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't have a lot of experience in like B, 2 B AI, like a gentic. AI. It doesn't mean that I don't know someone who will have that information and be able to like point you in the right direction. So you definitely want to be able to like optimize for that as well.
Kevin Kaspar: So that's kind of just like thoughts broader on the format.
Kevin Kaspar: There are a few principles that I think I've learned a lot over the years, and I would say, all of these are pretty important.
Kevin Kaspar: the most important thing is that people really
Kevin Kaspar: are not as smart as you give them credit for. I think, in the sense that, like you do have to teach people what you're building like. They're genuinely 10 years old, and I think that
Kevin Kaspar: the reason you have to do. That is because you have to make it so simple for them to understand that then they can build on what they know, so that you can explain everything that you want to explain to them in 6 min, but you have to give them the like 10 year old version in the 1st 60 seconds for them to understand the rest of your presentation, because if they don't understand the core of your business, they're not going to understand the pricing model, or who you're selling to, or why it matters so it makes
Kevin Kaspar: it's really important to get this part right.
Kevin Kaspar: you have to do a lot of the hard work for the listener, and I think that's the challenging point. It's like you have to write the script and write the story in a way that they're going to understand. You don't have to make. You can't make them understand right? They have to do it for themselves.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, just to double tap. This is so important for this class in particular, because we have a lot more sort of vertical specificity. And you guys understand the people you're selling into and the industries you're selling into so much better than anyone else in the audience will. So that sort of education teaching component will be super super important for all of you guys.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's super helpful context. And I think that makes this next point really important, that you have to identify like, what is the absolute, essential information that I need to teach my audience that they don't know that they don't already have in their brain, but that they have to know in order for them to understand the rest of the pitch. And I think keeping that in mind is like pretty essential when you're crafting your pitch because you want to give them all of that information, but you want to
Kevin Kaspar: keep it in a way that's super digestible for them. So kind of like a.
Kevin Kaspar: An image that you can keep in mind is like having this truly be more of like an information tunnel right like, keep it very broad in the beginning and then work your way into the specificity that you need to explain down the line. You want to get your most specific insights and data. And you know
Kevin Kaspar: points of reference at the end of the pitch, probably in your Q, and a. And less so in the very beginning. You can, of course, have like something that draws their attention and brings them in. But I think the level of specificity should increase as you go across.
Kevin Kaspar: Yup, be like you're at the top. The audience is the at the end. Keep that in mind right? Like you have the information at the beginning, and you need to be able to digest that and send it to your audience.
Kevin Kaspar: One of my favorite things that I think people don't do enough of is like really being able to connect the dots between sentences, because you really only do have 6 min. So it's hard to communicate everything that you want to say in such a little amount of time. I'm sure every single one of you probably feels that way. But one super helpful tactic that both helps keep your audience engaged and helps tie the sentences across. The reader is like just being able
Kevin Kaspar: to write down these like being able to say 2 sentences back to back and having them tie together. So like, here are 2 examples that I love that are like from just like me and a friend.
Kevin Kaspar: but I'm just going to read them out loud to you, and you'll be able to see the tie but like one of them was as an all female Gen. Z. Team. We not only have the technical abilities to build cue the curves.
Kevin Kaspar: but our team deeply understands our users experience. And then they say, as women who grew up in the age of online shopping and social media. Right? Do you see how they tied those 2 sentences together? Similarly I was shocked to learn that 100% of interviewees reported word of mouth or direct site as their primary method of notification. And then I go on to say landowners rely so heavily on word of mouth, because right? So you're not requiring the audience to do any work. You're giving it all themselves, and you're connecting the dots between every sentence.
Kevin Kaspar: It's kind of like the beginning of the sentence should have a thought, and the end of the sentence should have a thought, and the end and beginning should always be tied.
Kevin Kaspar: I think that's like a pretty intuitive one, but I just don't think that people do it. Do it enough in pitches, and I think that's a really big missed opportunity.
Chloe Lannert: Totally as we've we've done the whole like 3 main takeaways for the pitch that
Chloe Lannert: that we've we've spoken about. But this is a really great example of like how to keep drilling in on the key points that you want the audience to remember like this is the implementation side.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's a really good point.
Kevin Kaspar: the next thing is much easier said than done. But really treating your pitch as a conversation, I think, is the best opportunity for you to engage your audience very authentically, and
Kevin Kaspar: I think related to this.
Kevin Kaspar: When you're prototyping like what you want the pitch to be. I think the best way to practice is to actually say out loud what you want to say, and then write it down, because I think when you're trying to create a script or write what you want to say down first, st it comes kind of it comes across differently than how you would say it, and the best thing you can do for yourself is.
Kevin Kaspar: put it in your own words, and how you would more naturally say these things, and then write that down and use that as kind of like your 1st filter for creating these kind of drafts or pitches, or however, you want to frame it.
Kevin Kaspar: This is when I was working with Texters the last earlier. I unfortunately have not seen this with working with all of you. I hope that I get to. But like everyone is, gonna have their own tone when you're building this out. And I think that bringing that and like owning. That is definitely something that like makes you and your company unique. So I wouldn't be afraid to kind of like lean into that and definitely like, own your like style of speaking the way that you like to present yourself and making that like
Kevin Kaspar: kind of a core part of the pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: I think the best. The other thing that's really helpful when you're trying to
Kevin Kaspar: treat this as a conversation is like.
Kevin Kaspar: I have one example that I'm thinking of that I'll like be able to share, and it's a little bit specific. So hopefully, you can like extrapolate beyond. But
Kevin Kaspar: it's a little bit harder of a way to communicate, but bringing, like as much logic and sanity into an argument, is way more beneficial than trying to lead with, like the most technical answer. So
Kevin Kaspar: an example I can give was, I was working on a startup a few years ago, and it was about wildfire detection and notification. And we basically had all of these like sensors that we put in the middle of the forest to detect for wildfires. And I always got this question that was like, how are you going to deploy all of these devices in the middle of like the forest? That seems like really impossible.
Kevin Kaspar: and a technical answer could be like, well, we've created this risk model that tells us how many devices we need to put and where we need to put them. And like we've used a very mathematical model to like help. Answer that question.
Kevin Kaspar: The logic part of that answer is something as simple as like, well, we work with timber companies. And they have, like, really well built in road systems. So like, I can actually access every square inch of the property that I need to access. So
Kevin Kaspar: putting these down on the property isn't as actually as challenging as you think. It is right. So that's like a very clear example of when you could have led with a more technical example or something that's a little bit more intuitive, and it it lets the audience take it in a bit more naturally, and I think that any chance that you can do that is just a great opportunity to keep it kind of more conversational
Kevin Kaspar: but it's kind of hard to find those moments.
Kevin Kaspar: okay, cool. It's the last one. Yeah. And then, like, that kind of goes into broader like, you know you get to pick what you wear, you get to pick what music you want, how you stand on stage, how you move around on stage and like feel free to own that and make your own decisions. There's like a ton of past demo day videos that you can watch to see like way other people have done it before, what works, what doesn't, what you might want to do? So just like feel free to use those as leverage when you're when you're practicing.
Kevin Kaspar: The last piece of advice is very hard to do. I don't know if this is the last one actually one of the last ones, which is very hard to do, is like this is your pitch, and at the end of the day you, the CEO,
Kevin Kaspar: is the one that's presenting this information and no one else. So it's great to get advice from other people. It's like essential to get advice for other people. But at the end of the day like this really is your pitch, and I think, owning that as much as possible is
Kevin Kaspar: is really important. So
Kevin Kaspar: you, as a CEO, I think, need to be the one taking the lead on this. It's pretty easy to like
Kevin Kaspar: offshore some of this work to like an intern, or someone on your marketing team, or an advisor, or another co-founder. But I think at the end of the day, like you're the one presenting. So you need need to take full ownership. Of course there's you as the CEO have a lot of ownership across the company, and you know you're spread pretty thin, but I think taking responsibility and owning this will not only help Demo Day go well, but will also help you understand your business in a much broader way that I think is really important.
Kevin Kaspar: and I think that's kind of why.
Kevin Kaspar: like building out this repertoire of like
Kevin Kaspar: like questions that you might get like, get asked is really helpful. Because if you have a list of like, okay, what are all of the things that people are currently asking me about. And how do I package that into a pitch like you have already thought about those questions, whether it's through mentor madness, whether it's through like investors that you've worked with.
Kevin Kaspar: You have a set of like criteria that other people want to know the answers to, and you can be able to kind of package that, but do it in your own tone. Do it in your own voice, and the way that, like your company, would talk about that, not the way an investor would want to hear that information.
Kevin Kaspar: and then, I think, like getting advice is honestly one of the most important pieces of developing a good pitch, but I'll have a lot more on this later. But, like, don't be afraid of getting advice. I think sometimes people like to share like keep it internal and say, like, Okay, I've worked on this like I've done 10 iterations myself. And then I'm going to share it out like I think sharing early and often is like probably the best approach to take here.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright! Some questions of like, How do you know if it's good pitch?
Kevin Kaspar: I think the best pitches. Answer a few of these questions. Your pitch should always answer the. So what one test that I've always used is like, okay, if I go through, you know, I want to talk about like my customer segments, who I'm selling to, and why that matters.
Kevin Kaspar: The best thing you can do for yourself is like, have I answered the so what? Okay? Why am I selling to those people? And like kind of a core testing point you can do is like, ask yourself why 5 times, and see if, like, the answer at the end is what you have kind of at the end of the day on like that you're planning on presenting.
Kevin Kaspar: I just think, going through this exercise, and like constantly reminding yourself of these things, is the best way to make sure that your pitch is
Kevin Kaspar: like structured in a way that people are really going to understand from the get go and I think the other piece related to this is like you do have to kind of have a hundred percent confidence in what you're building and the way that you're approaching the pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: Obviously, there's a difference between like confidence and cockiness. But I think that it's okay to like, be extremely confident about what you've built, and the only way to do that is to like, get a lot of pitch advice right like, make sure that you've thought about all the questions. Make sure that you've practiced it a lot of times. So getting to a point of like 100 confidence is very hard. But I think
Kevin Kaspar: getting to that level gets you to a place where you can kind of do it on autopilot. You can feel confident doing it at any time of the day. And you're like excited to get up there and share
Kevin Kaspar: So that's just like a few other pieces of advice.
Kevin Kaspar: Let me see how many of these I have left. Okay, great I think the next piece.
Kevin Kaspar: which is pretty interesting, is like the way that you deliver the pitch, I would say, is, is arguably more important than the content itself, because you can have the best content in the world on paper. But if you're not delivering that in a way that's like resonating with people. It makes it a lot harder for them to actually want
Kevin Kaspar: to have a conversation with you after. So I would practice not only the content a lot, but especially the delivery and like the way that I do that is literally record yourself like, do it in front of a mirror. Force yourself to watch the recording. I had a ton of pitches that I like hated the way that I looked the way that I was walking around things that I was saying, and that makes you realize what you like about your pitch, what you don't like about your pitch, and how you want to change it.
Kevin Kaspar: so I think
Kevin Kaspar: just like ruthlessly doing that is is pretty important. Some things to keep in mind are just like the tone that you're actually sharing the intonation, the speed, the pace, right? All of those things really matter. The way that you say the 1st sentence of your pitch is probably different than the way you say. Your last sentence of the pitch, which is different than how you might answer a question to one of the eirs right? So just keep in mind like what?
Kevin Kaspar: What different parts of the pitch demand at different times. And like, keep that in mind as you're delivering the pitch and getting feedback as well.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright. So those were like some best practices. Do people have any questions about that like how you deliver it when you know it's a good pitch. There's a lot of things in there. But like happy to answer, just like broad questions about advice, also that I have I think I hit on a lot of them, but I just want to make sure the time is useful for you. But after that I can go into kind of more specifics. If you guys have any questions.
Chloe Lannert: Great.
Chloe Lannert: Do you all know how you're sort of going to be presenting yourselves the almost.
Carlo Scaglia: Like the.
Chloe Lannert: That people like when people are referring to you.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, the lawyer like, Oh, the brand guy, do you? Do? You have an idea of like how you want to be remembered.
Chloe Lannert: based on your pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: Good question.
Carlo Scaglia: Do we need to have like?
Carlo Scaglia: Do we need to have the like? Oh, this guy is the lawyer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You don't have to have it. That's how people are. So people are gonna take away and they're gonna go. Oh, yeah, what was that the the content company? Right? They're gonna oh, it's already right. They're gonna start to like, kind of typecast you guys as they recall who you are and what you do. So you have to give it to them. Otherwise they're gonna come up with different versions of it. That may not be what you want.
Carlo Scaglia: Okay.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, it's a great point, especially just hearing the like volume of pitches that you'll they'll likely hear, you know, in any given day, making sure that they can tie a name to a face. And a company, I think, is like really important, and not an easy exercise, for, like any broad listener to do so
Kevin Kaspar: great. If you have questions as they come up, feel free to let me know anytime.
Kevin Kaspar: Now, I'll go into like some more tactical feedback about how to approach like the specific segments of the pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: The, of course, caveat here is like every company, is different. These are like broad pieces of advice, but they won't necessarily to apply to every single use case, or like every single type of company.
Kevin Kaspar: But
Kevin Kaspar: I think there's definitely like a few guiding principles with this 1 min pitch that you should keep in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: My favorite is the 1st one. I think it's well worth it to spend the 1st minute of your pitch focusing far more on the problem than the solution that you're actually delivering. Because people really need to understand why you're building something, and why they should care before they need to understand what the product actually is. Neil teaches tons of this, so I'm sure you have plenty of experience getting to the root of the problem, and why you need to build your product for various, you know, customers and segments so
Kevin Kaspar: like feel free to let that shine early on. But like once you've kind of answered that the next question that people want to understand is literally just like the what and the how between
Kevin Kaspar: behind your company. So I think this goes back to the point I was making earlier about.
Kevin Kaspar: You need to explain it to someone like they're 10 years old because people
Kevin Kaspar: don't often understand the what or the how behind, like a demo or behind a pitch, and just being able to answer that super clearly for people like, is it a platform? Is it an app? Is it a physical product?
Kevin Kaspar: How does how does the user interact with that? How do they use it? Do they use it every day? Do they use it, you know, at a certain time, just like having the the bare bones that you probably think are so absurdly simple. Communicating those extremely clearly is super important.
Kevin Kaspar: The next thing is just like why you're the right person to be doing this? I'm sure you've been asked that question. You were probably asked that question in your like tech source interviews and being able to like resurface that and own that. I think sometimes that's challenging for people. Right? If you're like getting up on the stage and being like I'm the best person in the world to solve this problem like, I'm so awesome.
Kevin Kaspar: But I think people need it goes back to the like confidence versus cockiness piece like they need to trust that you can actually go out and execute building this business, and you need to showcase that. And the only way to showcase. That is, by explaining, like, why you're the right person to go out and do it.
Kevin Kaspar: The last piece that's super helpful is just like anytime that you can give an example.
Kevin Kaspar: It's it's like leaps and bounds
Kevin Kaspar: more helpful than trying to explain it broadly. I would open up every single one of my pitches with one specific example, and it'll never leave my brain. But like it always was a great way for them to understand. Like, okay, I understand why, this is a problem for one person, and now that I understand it for one person, I can apply that to like other types of people that are similar to him or other
Kevin Kaspar: areas of like. Why, you can kind of take that and extrapolate it broader. So just like definitely keep these in mind as you're developing your pitch. They're like fairly simple, but I think that they're very helpful and can definitely guide a conversation in a much more productive way than trying to address a lot of the nuance.
Chloe Lannert: To add color. Can I ask you for that example?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, sure. So like, I said I was building that like,
Kevin Kaspar: that wildfire detection and notification system. And I always talk about this customer named Corey Bingaman, who was a forester at Collins Co. Lumber, and he was in a family farm and harvested his trees for like 35 years, and then he had a wildfire go through his property and ruin 100 million dollars of of timber that he didn't have wildfire insurance on, and kind of like, wiped out his livelihood at that point, because he literally like lived on the like, lived on the lumber ranch, and, like.
Kevin Kaspar: had a lot of challenges. Right? So if you understand that visual of someone who's like
Kevin Kaspar: worked for 30 years to harvest these trees that then they lost in a fire. You can understand why a solution for, like prompt detection of these wildfires could be beneficial.
Kevin Kaspar: And it doesn't mean that, like Corey is like the end all be all example. But it just shows, like the type of customer that I'm trying to sell to why, they might have this need and like, why, a solution like ours might be valuable. So
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, definitely great. I always like to do this like a little what
Kevin Kaspar: what to do, what not to do. This is just from my personal experience, what I found helpful, but I think it really is important for this pitch to write a script. I think that getting to a point where you have exactly what you want to say in the allotted time is super important.
Kevin Kaspar: But over memorizing can kind of create some challenges because,
Kevin Kaspar: you want to be able to think quickly on your feet. If you know, something doesn't go the way that you're hoping it to. So just always being able to like, think about, okay, what's the broader story that I'm trying to connect? Like, okay, what are the 4 or 5 ideas I'm trying to communicate, in addition to having that like bundled up script.
Kevin Kaspar: I think, adding on to that like the next piece goes into like, how do you fight for every single word that you have? And how do you make sure that everything that you're saying is meaningful?
Kevin Kaspar: I'm sure I've had a lot of filler words, and the way that I've presented this information, but being able to be very tactical with every single word choice that you use will make the listener kind of, I think. Understand
Kevin Kaspar: what you're building better. And it just lets you be more intentional with how you're communicating. But the challenge here is like, if you miss a word you're gonna want to like, go back and make sure that you remember that, or restart the sentence like having the ability to improv is like the best thing that you can do for yourself in a pitch. You probably might not think it makes sense in the moment what you're like saying. But I promise you it's like a connected thought. I've done it
Kevin Kaspar: dozens of times. So just like, keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: I think
Kevin Kaspar: that brings to the point of like, how do you create a holistic view for yourself like, how do you get the listeners to understand what you're doing broadly, and the
Kevin Kaspar: downfall to achieving that is like thinking about the pitch as a crammed pitch deck, because you're not going to be able to say the 1012, 15 things that you typically say in like a longer form deck in this 1 min.
Kevin Kaspar: you're really only going to be able to say like one, maybe 2 or 3 of those topics. But it's about making the most of those specific topics as opposed to trying to answer every single question. That's like, broadly what the Q. And a. I would argue is for like hitting on those most important areas. So definitely don't do that.
Kevin Kaspar: I think introducing yourself is
Kevin Kaspar: one of the harder things to do in these pitches, but I wouldn't shy away from from talking about yourself. We've already kind of mentioned that I don't care if it's like the 1st thing that you say. If it's the last thing that you say in your 1 min pitch, or if it's somewhere in the middle, but you definitely have to do it so that people can tie a name to a face and
Kevin Kaspar: whatever you know, wherever you can find the best flow in the pitch, I would argue, is kind of where you do it.
Kevin Kaspar: In the 1 min pitch, though I would argue, the other most important thing that you have to do is answer this broader question of like, what does your company do? What benefits does your company provide to the people that use your product and service?
Kevin Kaspar: That really is kind of like the core question that I, personally would try to answer in this like short, 1 min pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: so yeah, that's kind of like broader. And then, of course, focusing on posture, walking presence. We already talked about that. And the best way to do that is just practice, and like being able to practice with people in the program and in the cohort, I think is really helpful. Yeah, hand raise.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: I have one quick question here. So one people like a few people like. Of course, some people would talk fast. Some people would talk very slow like me. So I'm just saying wondering, like we have also budget of the number of words we can use. Probably. So do you have any like a rough number of words that can be like something
Esmaeil Sadeghi: kind of rule of thumb, for instance, that we can stick to something roughly for this 1 min pitch, for instance.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's a really good question. And unfortunately, I don't have an answer. But I think it's because every pitch is different and everyone has a different speed that they talk, and I wouldn't try to increase the amount of words that you say, or necessarily decrease the amount of words that you say, but I would always argue that slower is probably better so if you can say everything that you need to say in the typical way that you speak, I think, is, it's great.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: That makes sense.
Chloe Lannert: Also literally find a document and time yourself for 1 min, and see how many words you can read out loud, and use that as a baseline like that. 1 min pitch. Those scripts are short, like shorter than you expect them to be.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: You have to deliver them, not just speed. Run through them.
Kevin Kaspar: Realistically, it'll probably be like 6 sentences.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: Yeah, I think for a native person like a native speaking person, it would be like 150 words. But for me it's probably like 100 words. So let's see like how I can manage that.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: I think that it's certainly possible. So I wouldn't. I wouldn't be too anxious about it, like you can definitely say all that you need to in a short period of time, and, like you don't have to answer every question that someone might have. That's what like having the ability for them to go up and talk to you after is for so it's okay to have like teasers of why they might want to come up and talk to you after.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: That makes sense.
Kevin Kaspar: Great
Kevin Kaspar: alright moving into the demo, I would say transparently, this is the area that I always oh, yeah, Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah, sorry I was. I wasn't sure if you had more on that slide going back to the last slide, could you? Elaborate on? Don't be creative.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, I think people just want to know, like
Kevin Kaspar: what you're actually building, why, it actually matters, and why they should care about it, like those types of questions. You should have crystal clear, and shouldn't
Kevin Kaspar: change the way that you talk about that like once you have a communication style that works like I would rinse and repeat that I'm just saying you want to get to a point where they don't have any questions. But you don't want to get to a point where you're like always coming up with new ways of like talking about your business, right? That
Kevin Kaspar: you don't want to try a new method of communication at Demo Day. Most likely you want to. You want to use something that you know resonates with an audience, and that you've like tested in multiple rooms before.
Andrew Fernandes: Got it? Thanks.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: One another question I have here. So it seems like you want to have this 1 min, 1 min page to be like, sell standing somehow about. We have also this 1 min, like product video as well like a product demo as well. So how this can be like supporting each other to be complementary. So we don't really need to repeat information in these 2
Esmaeil Sadeghi: opportunities that we have there. For us. Actually, it's a kind of like, very like a high tech product we have. So we are like, we want to have our like, video initially, being 1st and then followed by by this 1 min page. So we already had some information or like product and demo. So now we want to complement that video somehow.
Esmaeil Sadeghi: So just curious. How do you see from your perspective how it can be like complementary.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, the broad framework that I think you can use to think about it is like problem versus solution. Right? A demo is usually a place that you share your solution and how it actually works, and maybe who's using it. But that doesn't and shouldn't probably highlight anything about like the the problem or like why someone needs to use your platform or product in the 1st place, and I would use the pitch as a place to try and answer that question more directly.
Kevin Kaspar: But I would say
Kevin Kaspar: definitely, write your pitch in the order that you are presenting it right? So if you're going to do your demo. 1st make sure that you like, own that piece, and refine that as much as possible, and then build on that in your in your pitch later down the line.
Kevin Kaspar: Great questions, thanks, guys.
Kevin Kaspar: Sweet
Kevin Kaspar: moving into the demo transparently. This is where I have probably the least amount of experience, just because a lot of my pitches have been more like
Kevin Kaspar: more communication and less visuals. But obviously I've seen I don't know. 36, 48 of these. So I definitely have, like a high, high enough end to to be dangerous. So
Kevin Kaspar: 1st one is like, definitely do a storyboarding walkthrough exercise. I think that is like the most important piece here is you only have 60 seconds, so make sure that you like. Can imagine what on the slot like, what on the video is going to be shared with the words that are
Kevin Kaspar: being voiced over in the background, and like the best, this is the best way to do it right, just like plan out all right. The 1st 10 seconds are going to be this next 10 seconds are going to be this. These are the sentences that are going to go behind it.
Kevin Kaspar: hopefully, you guys have done, or you all have done, a similar exercise. Great! And Chloe's nodding. So that makes me feel good. So build on, that is all I'm saying.
Kevin Kaspar: In terms of what to do and what not to do.
Kevin Kaspar: My biggest thing is, try to try to treat this as a continuation of your pitch, and if this is first, st you know, have a good, strong, strong landing point for you to then continue into the pitch. Later.
Kevin Kaspar: I would be
Kevin Kaspar: the way that you can solve, for that is like, all right. Here's how it works right bringing in those those transitional phrases for you to imply that you're about to show them a demo but I wouldn't fill the time with like disconnected content. So I wouldn't view this as like, okay, I have. I have 6 min total, and I have 1 min, Demo. And I really only have like 40 seconds of demo content. But I'm just gonna shove 20 other set like seconds of
Kevin Kaspar: other content that I want to get in during this time I definitely would not, would not do that. So I would. If your demo like doesn't need to be a full minute. That's like, okay, it can be 45 seconds. It can be 50 seconds right? But just like, make sure that the information you're presenting is like, only relevant to the to the purposes of a demo.
Kevin Kaspar: I think some things that you can do is to continue to paint that like that broader storyline. So when you're getting to the demo, the best way to do that is to kind of bring in like a user, a user, focused aspect to it, right, always route what you're walking through. And in the way of like, how how someone would be interacting with this product, how they'd be using it. What's the like context for it? What's the benefits that they get as a result?
Kevin Kaspar: but don't forget, like at the end of the day you need to show what you've built and how you've built it, and and why people are using it.
Kevin Kaspar: I think people have had varying levels of success with this of like
Kevin Kaspar: the amount of like resources or energy that you invest in this video one strong, like point of view that I've seen people do in the past which I've enjoyed is they view this as something that they can use for demo day, but they can also.
Kevin Kaspar: I don't want to say, repurpose, but also leverage on their website, or in other aspects of their business. So to the extent that you can highly customize it for Demo Day, and make sure that it builds into your pitch and your broader storyline.
Kevin Kaspar: but also have it be applicable to somewhere else. I think it's okay to invest a little bit more time, energy, and or money. If you can actually use this in another in another way as well, and maybe you can't use the whole minute. Maybe you can use 40 seconds of it or something. But I definitely think that that can incentivize you to kind of like, put the right time and energy that is necessary to to make this successful.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm sure you've heard this from other people right like. Don't don't put in login screens don't put in any unnecessary content like, get straight to the important stuff. And like, what are the the core
Kevin Kaspar: features and benefits that that like a customer is going to actually use on your platform.
Kevin Kaspar: Great
Kevin Kaspar: alright, Q. And a. This one is absolutely my favorite so I hope that you have some level of excitement. With the Q&A as well.
Kevin Kaspar: and I'll go through kind of some similar guiding principles. As I did with kind of the broader pitch.
Kevin Kaspar: and there's 4 of them. The 1st one is to be answer 1st in your approach, and what I mean by that is.
Kevin Kaspar: don't give the context for the answer, and then give the answer. Give the answer immediately. So if, like, someone asks, Who is your what's your beachhead market like it's okay to literally be like my beachhead market is, and then fill in the blank.
Kevin Kaspar: It's much better that you do that. And then you give the content? Well, we're targeting this demographic. For these reasons this is what what our customers have said. This is why it matters. Here's where we're going next right like you can bring all of that in and still
Kevin Kaspar: have that be a very purposeful part of the answer. But the last thing you want to do is keep someone hanging for 45 seconds a minute into a question and not have them answer it directly. I think that's kind of like a sign of I don't want to say weakness, but like that you're maybe trying to like move around the question or like not answer it directly. So I think you get a lot of respect if someone asks you a challenging question and you're able to answer it directly and discreetly, as quickly as possible.
Kevin Kaspar: and as related to that, I think it's also pretty important to have kind of like one primary thought per question.
Kevin Kaspar: As a result, I think that it's better to have more, a few more questions that are more targeted than like 3 questions across these 4 min, and you speak and ramble for a long time. Even if all of that information is important, they're just not going to receive it. The audience, the way that they might need to.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah. Eirs will help with this. But I often see 1st draft
Chloe Lannert: versions of the Q&A having like literally just 4 questions. And then these long, long answers like.
Chloe Lannert: Please break it up as soon as possible. You're giving your eir a chance to signpost to the audience what you're talking about, and make each point more distinct, like, use that conversation element to to break things up.
Chloe Lannert: This is that that's huge. Thank you, Kevin.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah. Of course, it also forces you to be really tactical with like, what questions you want to get answered. How are you going to communicate those questions right. If you give yourself room to
Kevin Kaspar: to ramble, you're going to ramble, so try and keep it as structured as possible, goes back to like. The idea of the Eir is trying to keep this a conversation. I think that this is one of the best things that Eirs actually do for Demo Day is, they make it very conversational. They make it feel like you're just like sitting at a room talking to them. And this is a way to really bring the audience in so like, feel free to talk about this with your like Eir beforehand
Kevin Kaspar: ways that you can make it conversational things that you want to talk about ways that you want the Q. And a. To go like
Kevin Kaspar: their job is to make sure that this demo get day goes as smoothly as possible for you, so do whatever you need to to communicate with them to
Kevin Kaspar: Kind of make sure that it feels feels natural, feels like a conversation.
Kevin Kaspar: and it's something that you know you're excited to talk about.
Kevin Kaspar: the last piece here is at the end of the day. Your goal is to get these potential customers, potential investors, potential champions of your work to get them to act right. So this is kind of like the last chance that you have to convince the audience to come up to you afterwards. So anything that you can really do to make the ask very explicit at the end is really important. So these are just broader things to keep in mind, kind of as you go about the pitch
Kevin Kaspar: and the Q, and a
Kevin Kaspar: alright last piece here, like things to do and not do like you definitely should craft this Q&A like. However, you want right. Be super creative in the approach that you take.
Kevin Kaspar: But definitely don't feel like you need to say everything. You're just not going to be able to answer every single question about your business in 6 min. But you should be able to craft the questions in a way that you're
Kevin Kaspar: delivering the 80%. Most important information that someone needs to know about your business. I always had, like a mentor or an English teacher for me, actually, back in high school who said, like you can do whatever you want as long as it works. And that really resonated with me because it's like it doesn't matter how the Q. And A is structured. It doesn't matter what you're saying or how you're saying it. As long as it resonates with the audience that you needed to resonate with so definitely, just keep that in mind like you have more flexibility than you might think
Kevin Kaspar: and again, watching some of those like Demo Day videos can give you some like
Kevin Kaspar: some insights into, like what other people have done in the past.
Kevin Kaspar: kind of touched on this already, just like being concise as possible, and trying not to ramble, but not only being concise, but also being specific. I think that broad statements are really hard to internalize, so as specific as you can get at any given moment
Kevin Kaspar: is just super important. And I think that sometimes, like
Kevin Kaspar: you don't want to outsmart your audience, though, like you want to get specific. But you want to get specific in ways that everyone is going to understand right? So don't bring in technical details or
Kevin Kaspar: like a further level of information that someone
Kevin Kaspar: who was a high schooler couldn't understand. So just like definitely keep that in mind.
Kevin Kaspar: my favorite and easiest piece of advice is like, Please sequence the questions like, I think sometimes people don't put a lot of thought into which.
Kevin Kaspar: like which questions they answer 1st versus last. You have a lot of autonomy over how you structure this. So make sure that each question builds on one another, and that it's additive, like as you go across the Q. And A.
Kevin Kaspar: But like don't overthink this too much, I think sometimes people are like, Oh, I'm thinking about making this my second question versus my 4th question, like it should just flow naturally, and I think that you'll have a good handle on that, because you're the one actually presenting it.
Kevin Kaspar: I think this is probably the most important piece of the whole. Q. And a. Please please answer the hard questions, and own up to the hard questions and
Kevin Kaspar: be forthcoming with challenges that you've had, because people like to see the resiliency and like you overcoming those challenges or you overcoming those hurdles. Everyone knows that building a startup is very hard, and it's really important that you kind of address any challenges or or difficulties that you have in the Q. And a.
Kevin Kaspar: I would say, as a result like, you don't want to kind of sugarcoat the challenges that you're having and kind of gloss over some of the areas. The best thing you can do is really own that and show how you're thinking about it, how you are planning on overcoming it. What processes you have in place to make, you know, to turn the outcome around right? So just definitely think about how you can address what you need to address as directly and as effectively as possible.
Kevin Kaspar: feel free to like, create elements of surprise in this pitch or in this. QA. It's always important to keep the audience engaged. But, like definitely, don't lie about anything that you're doing or anything that you're working on. So just like, obviously, that's like very intuitive, but just want to make it crystal clear, because obviously this is recorded, and like the way that you present yourself now will will you know, trickle into the way that you're continuing to build your company later down the line.
Kevin Kaspar: So yeah, go ahead, Andrew.
Andrew Fernandes: Intentionally outsmart your audience.
Andrew Fernandes: Yeah, I think that.
Kevin Kaspar: It's more about like
Kevin Kaspar: bringing technical information to the table that doesn't necessarily need to be discussed. I think a lot of people get excited about like
Kevin Kaspar: technical buzzwords that an audience might like get excited about. But I think the most important thing is just like, deliver what you need to deliver. Don't share pieces that are overly technical. And
Kevin Kaspar: yeah, make sure that what you're actually delivering people understand.
Chloe Lannert: People will ask you about the technical stuff at the cocktail hour if they want to.
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, that's such a good point.
Ankur Toshniwal: A question about sorry. Can you go back to the previous slide?
Kevin Kaspar: Yeah, yeah.
Ankur Toshniwal: I had a question about answer the hard questions. So one thing we were thinking about, and I don't know if this is true is how kind of like flow of how audiences pay attention to any kind of performance narrative. And I guess in my experience it's kind of like you get like 30 second, 30 seconds of focus from a.
Kevin Kaspar: Sure.
Ankur Toshniwal: Audience before they kind of go away. And so I try and structure things like this where you have like, you have guard basically
Ankur Toshniwal: train tracks for people to be able to get back on to your narrative. So I I'm curious. If there is, ever. Does it ever make sense to do certain like gimme questions, to help people like just jump back on the train. Right? So like, for example, one of the things we were
Ankur Toshniwal: planning on doing is just like an early entry question is like, you know, so how long have you been working on this right? And just like give people a way to step into your world without starting out like, why are you different with chat? Gpt right? Like, like, yeah, like, that's like, really hard. It's like super intense, and it's like the most important thing, if any. No one's ever heard your voice before that they can't really like.
Ankur Toshniwal: It's just a lot.
Ankur Toshniwal: Is that true? Is that is, that insight? Is that kind of instinct or intuition to want to have some kind of build true, or should we? Just, you know, hard questions the whole time, and like, you know, that's kind of right.
Kevin Kaspar: No, I think having a build is like Super fair, and I think it can be important. You don't want to like constantly being delivering just like very intense topics like back to back to back that like you have to teach your audience a lot about for them to understand. So, throwing in, like other topics that are a little bit easier to discuss and more intuitive for the audience to understand is totally fine. I would just make sure that any of those topics are still like core to
Kevin Kaspar: the business, and answer and questions that you do believe still need to be answered, and that are important for people to understand
Kevin Kaspar: how long you've been working on it. That's a great one like that shows, you know, that you've been building this for a certain period of time that you've made a lot of progress and x amount of, you know, X amount of time, whatever it is. I would just make sure that
Kevin Kaspar: if you're deciding to like sequence in a different order, or give something that's a little bit more easily digestible, that it's just equally as important as something that might be a little bit harder to answer.
Kevin Kaspar: Sweet.
Chloe Lannert: Super quick, Esmael. So the
Chloe Lannert: audience is going to be slightly different. This is why we're asking for those invitation lists from you guys of the people you want there. So we are inviting mentors. We are inviting investors, but we really do want to invite the people who are most valuable to you. So, still looking out for those lists from folks, the sooner you can get those lists
Chloe Lannert: it's over, the sooner I can get those invites out so tailored invites. For whether it's customers, investors, super targeted people that you really want to be there based in the Bay area. So we can fill the audience with people who matter to you.
Chloe Lannert: Just double tapping.
Chloe Lannert: Send those along.
Kevin Kaspar: That's a good point, and please do that right, like you have a clear vision of what you want to get out of Demo day, and the best way to get something meaningful out of Demo Day is invite the people that you want to see what you've been building, so
Kevin Kaspar: I can't echo that further. It's a great, great point, Chloe.
Kevin Kaspar: Great
Kevin Kaspar: closing. Ask. I would argue, it's pretty important at the end of the day. This is the way that you can engage your audience to come back and speak to you further, and you can exchange information that way.
Kevin Kaspar: The the big question here is just like, what would someone actually come up to you and talk about right? You want to. You want to be. You want to appear as approachable, and someone that they can go and have a conversation with, and that barrier of, like someone thinking about
Kevin Kaspar: coming up and talking to you versus actually having a conversation with you is pretty high, I would argue, it's easier for some people than it is for others. But just think about the ways in which you can make that easier and reduce the amount of friction. So like is there a topic that
Kevin Kaspar: people would love to talk to you about, whether it's like fully related to your pitch or not that this is like a bad example. So I'm not going to like. Suggest that you do this in your pitch. But like, if you're this works in Chicago, when people are in Chicago, if you're a giants fan like
Kevin Kaspar: people would probably talk to you more if you said, Hey, I'm a giants, Fan, and I'm building this cool thing right? So like I'm not saying that you should say that you're a baseball fan in your pitch, but I am saying you should think about ways of communicating that people resonate with, and that might bring people in easier than you having to pull them in just like try to reduce that barrier as much as possible.
Kevin Kaspar: Alright! How I would prep for demo Day. I definitely have some insights here. Some tactical advice.
Kevin Kaspar: Sorry. My zoom is being weird. Okay? Yeah. Definitely tactical advice. I would
Kevin Kaspar: build out the pitch, the demo and the Q. And A. All in one singular document. My main reason for this is because, like I said, I, I think it's great to have it flow as much as possible. And the only way to make sure that it flows between different components is to have it all be in one place for you to stare at it and be like, does this actually flow? Does it not? So please do that.
Kevin Kaspar: I think the other thing is.
Kevin Kaspar: there might be areas that you still haven't fully like wrapped your head around or don't have answers yet, like startups move very quickly. There's a lot that can change between now and the 29, th when you are pitching, so just making sure that you like have placeholders. If there's a placeholder that needs to be in place, or there's like something. Maybe there's a contract you're hoping to land that you want to put in your pitch deck like build for those events as if they are going to happen, so that you can also incentivize yourself to make those happen. And
Kevin Kaspar: just think about that. I would say also.
Kevin Kaspar: my my biggest piece of advice is to get feedback from your most trusted mentors, your most trusted peers all at the same time.
Kevin Kaspar: and the reason that I say, all at the same time
Kevin Kaspar: is because if you get it
Kevin Kaspar: in increments, you're going to always feel like the person who you're receiving feedback from is right, and that you need to change your pitch to adapt to what they're asking you to do.
Kevin Kaspar: On the other hand, if you get 5 pieces of feedback. In 2 days you can look at it a lot more from an unbiased perspective and say, Okay, there are patterns in what these 3 people are saying. This is something that I actually need to change versus. This is something that's a little bit more of like a 1 off piece of advice that I can choose to implement or not.
Kevin Kaspar: So I think it's really important to bring your best foot forward. Don't don't come to mentors until you have kind of all of these areas built out. But once you've done the internal thought exercise to say, this is what I would present today if I had to.
Kevin Kaspar: I think it's really important to get feedback all at once.
Kevin Kaspar: because then you have everything that you need to actually go execute like these other iterations of the product, or these other iterations of the pitch in the demo. Because you've gotten your advice from the most trusted people, the people that you care about, and the people that you want their opinion from to go out and iterate yourself. It kind of goes back to the point earlier of like a mentor isn't going to actually build the pitch for you like you're going to build the pitch for yourself. So if you can get that early on, get all the feedback that you need to. Then it's your responsibility to actually take that and integrate that
Kevin Kaspar: alright
Kevin Kaspar: next piece of tactical advice. Please please memorize your pitch and your Q. And a. There's really no excuses to this. I have seen
Kevin Kaspar: some unfortunate circumstances in which
Kevin Kaspar: people have like kind of forgotten their pitch the day of, and had to like
Kevin Kaspar: Cram to memorize, or were still writing their pitch the day before, or didn't have answers to their questions. I think that's just like very
Kevin Kaspar: like, it's just not helpful. And it's it's not a good idea. So please
Kevin Kaspar: do this early. Do this often memorize it. And then that's like the base layer, like the. The.
Kevin Kaspar: The expectation is that you have this pitch memorized front and back like you could do it while sleeping. You could answer any Q. And a. At any moment in time like you have to have that like. It's the back of your hand. Then the next layer onto that is.
Kevin Kaspar: please record yourself pitching. I think this is super valuable exercise. I already talked about that earlier. Make sure to do that, and then, like you should be able to do a run of show like a week before, which is why I have it as 2 x's. Like you should be able to absolutely do it a week before. No excuses, because you need to be in a good place where you feel confident about it. I know that's coming up pretty soon. So keep that in mind. And just like
Kevin Kaspar: again, I would say, the most important thing you can do for yourself is to memorize, or is to memorize, record yourself, and be ready to practice early. The more that you can do that, the more comfortable that you'll feel.
Chloe Lannert: Just to.
Kevin Kaspar: Yep.
Chloe Lannert: It's not a you. All will be able to do a run of show by the 23.rd That's final approval meetings. You all will.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, absolutely keep that deadline.
Chloe Lannert: It's been flagged for a while. It's on the calendars. We're locked in.
Kevin Kaspar: Chloe already made a comment about this, so I don't even need to please fill the room with the people that you want to be there, invite them. And that's the best way that you can optimize for a positive experience.
Kevin Kaspar: All right, I think this is one of my last slides. I know we're coming up on time in a minute. But,
Kevin Kaspar: You really do have to be over the moon about your pitch, because if you aren't, no one else will be right. You have to put yourself in a position where you're super excited about what you've built, sharing that with the audience, and then letting that energy
Kevin Kaspar: like to the audience so that they can receive it. I think that if you aren't feeling 100% confident, the audience is certainly going to know that. And they're going to see 1012 pitches the same day, and they're going to know the people that feel super confident about their pitches, and the people that are a little bit more anxious as well. So just
Kevin Kaspar: for the purpose and the benefit of everyone, feel great about all of your pitches so that everyone can shine that day. There's certainly room for all of you, so make sure that you like feel great about that. But
Kevin Kaspar: of course. Thank you for your time. I always appreciate it. It's fun to do this. I will give Chloe my contact info my email, this pitch this little deck, so you have it, and I'm happy to grab time with any of you. Offline to kind of chat about this further. So
Kevin Kaspar: I appreciate it.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you so much. Kevin. Oh, we're right at time. Perfect.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you so much. Yeah.
Kevin Kaspar: Of course, any other last minute questions, or all set.
Ankur Toshniwal: Kevin, you're doing.
Carlo Scaglia: Drop to a call. But thanks a lot. Kevin.
Kevin Kaspar: Great.
Ankur Toshniwal: This was really awesome. And for what it's worth in your presentation skills you speak very clearly, and you do make good slides. So
Ankur Toshniwal: you lead by example. Thank you.
Kevin Kaspar: Thank you. Appreciate it. Have a good one. Everyone.
antoinecarriere: Thank you.
Vivian @makingautoeasy: Thank you.